# Project Structure (ams-lang)

This document serves as a technical map for engineers to navigate and work on the **ams-lang**, the language Engine of AutomonScript.

## Directory Tree

```text
ams-lang/                # Project (ROOT)
├── build/               # Build Generated by CMake
├── docs/                # Developer Documentation 
├── examples/            # Example Codes (.ams) 
├── external/            # Pre-built dependencies 
├── generated/           # Auto-generated by ANTLR C++ 
├── grammar/             # Grammar Definitions
├── include/             # Language Implementation
│   ├── core/            # CORE Language Engine
│   │   ├── builder/     # Intermediate AST Builder 
│   │   ├── compiler/    # Language Compiler Logic 
│   │   ├── interpreter/ # Language Interpreter Logic 
│   │   ├── supports/    # Language Support Logic 
│   │   └── runtime/     # Language Runtime Library 
│   └── stdlib/          # Standard Library & Utils  
└── src/                 # Implementation files
    ├── compiler/        # Compiler Code Generator
    └── driver/          # CLI Entry point (main.cpp)
```
## Directory Overview

### 1. Auto-Generated Files & Pre-Built Dependencies 
These folders contain pre-built or auto-generated files that are required by the project. These are installed using the provided setup/build scripts. Strictly avoid manual changes to prevent system failures.

**Do not modify these files**, and do not add them to your commits.

* `./build` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   This is the build folder generated by CMake.
* `./external` &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dependencies.
* `./generated` &nbsp;&nbsp; Auto-generated by ANTLR4.

### 2. (root)/grammar
* `./grammar` This folder contains the grammar definition files for the language in the .g4 format. Both LEXER and PARSER grammars are defined here. <br>
**(Work carefully Avoid Any Changes).**

### 3. (root)/include/{Core Language Implementation}
It contains the core language implementation, which converts the language into executable target code.

* `include/core/builder` Common AST Builder.
* `include/core/compiler` Compiler Generator. 
* `include/core/interpreter` Interpreter Evaluator.
* `include/core/supports` Support functions for the engine. 

### 4. (root)/include/runtime/{Runtime Engine Files}
It contains the language runtime library implementation for the language's core runtime services.

### 5. (root)/include/{Standard Library & Utilities}
It contains the implementation for the bundled libraries of the base language, providing fundamental language functionalities.

* `./stdlib` This is the language's standard library implementation, which provides basic functions for the language.
    * `/io` : Provides input and output functions.
    * `/utils` : Provides system utility functions.

### 6. (root)/src/
This is the entry point for the language engine (compiler and interpreter). It converts `.ams` files into an executable build or interprets them directly.

* `./compiler` Implements CodeGen to generate target code using the Builder and Generator from `./include/core`.
* `./driver` The entry point of the AMS language engine, providing CLI tools to use the language.